documents/ROFF-SYNTAX.md, before:

# The ROFF Syntax

## Requests and Escape Sequences

ROFF, being an ancient language, designed for efficiency, has a very 'terse' syntax. A 'terse' syntax, however, is not 'exactly' what ROFF has. We could say LLVM has a 'terse' syntax, ROFF is beyond 'terse': It's 'oblique'!

Just like its ancestor, Runoff (which we learned about on [History](ROFF-HISTORY.md)), it is comprised of 'requests', which are basically commands prefixed with '.' at the start of line, and most of them are no more than 2 characters:

``roff
.de
.ll 12i
```

Requests 'MAY' accept one or two parameters. You can see the signature for reqeusts in `datasets/roff-reqeusts.csv`. With them, you can change the configuration of your page (font size, line, spacing...).

Although GROFF allows for any number of characters, the original ROFF only allows for 2. Which is ridiculous, because Runoff allows for more! However, Runoff does not have macros.

Besides the requests, we have 'escape sequences'. These are sequences of text beginning with a backwards solidus (`\`). In fact, it's been said that C's escape sequences have thir birthplace here (said by me, just now). Take it with a mountain of salt, but it's not a long way from ROFF escape sequences, to C's escape sequences right?

```
\%
\&
```

You can view the list of escape sequences in `datasets/roff-escapes.csv`. They achieve a lot of things, for example, `\&` makes it so the next line is 'escaped' (similar to `\` in LaTeX).

One important escape sequence is `\"`. This one's basically comment. Up until newline, everything is ignore.

You may notice that, the typesetting system that people use today, LaTeX, is not much different syntax-wise. In fact, I would not be suprirsed if one could create syntax-directed translator from ROFF to LaTeX and back! There may even exist a script or program that does so.


**Anything else is text;**
**and Everything else is text!**

Basically, anything that is not a request, or an escape sequence, it considered plain text. There are some 130-odd built-in requests which are expainded by macros (read about them in [Macros](ROFF-MACROS.md)].

GROFF, being the only working ROFF engine today, has a complex hyphenation algorithm. But that's that, hyphenation is the only modification ROFF engine does to your text. 

There's one small thing about the ROFF syntax, which I was not sure to put here, or in the macros document. Basically, say, you have tihs:

```roff
.MY_MACRO
Line of text

.MY_OTHER_MACRO
Another line of text
```

Here, `MY_OTHER_MACRO` terminate the 'effect' of `MY_MACRO`. So any requests made, to, for example, change the font, are reverted back.

Commit message:

Added: Info about numeric expressions

documents/ROFF-SYNTAX.md, after:

# The ROFF Syntax

## Requests and Escape Sequences

ROFF, being an ancient language, designed for efficiency, has a very 'terse' syntax. A 'terse' syntax, however, is not 'exactly' what ROFF has. We could say LLVM has a 'terse' syntax, ROFF is beyond 'terse': It's 'oblique'!

Just like its ancestor, Runoff (which we learned about on [History](ROFF-HISTORY.md)), it is comprised of 'requests', which are basically commands prefixed with '.' at the start of line, and most of them are no more than 2 characters:

``roff
.de
.ll 12i
```

Requests 'MAY' accept one or two parameters. You can see the signature for reqeusts in `datasets/roff-reqeusts.csv`. With them, you can change the configuration of your page (font size, line, spacing...).

Although GROFF allows for any number of characters, the original ROFF only allows for 2. Which is ridiculous, because Runoff allows for more! However, Runoff does not have macros.

Besides the requests, we have 'escape sequences'. These are sequences of text beginning with a backwards solidus (`\`). In fact, it's been said that C's escape sequences have thir birthplace here (said by me, just now). Take it with a mountain of salt, but it's not a long way from ROFF escape sequences, to C's escape sequences right?

```
\%
\&
```

You can view the list of escape sequences in `datasets/roff-escapes.csv`. They achieve a lot of things, for example, `\&` makes it so the next line is 'escaped' (similar to `\` in LaTeX).

One important escape sequence is `\"`. This one's basically comment. Up until newline, everything is ignore.

You may notice that, the typesetting system that people use today, LaTeX, is not much different syntax-wise. In fact, I would not be suprirsed if one could create syntax-directed translator from ROFF to LaTeX and back! There may even exist a script or program that does so.

## Numeric Expressions

ROFF has extensive support for numeric expressions, thus making it a turing-complete language. Most UNIX languages are, in fact, Turing-complete and Bash and AWK are both Universal TMs.

Numeric expressions are only supported as parameters to requests like `.while` and `.if`:

```roff
.nr Counter 0
.while (\n[Counter] < 10) {
    .nr Counter +1
    .sp 1
    This is line number \n[Counter].
}

```

If you're wondering what `.nr` does, read about [Registers](ROFF-REGISTERS).

**Anything else is text;**
**and Everything else is text!**

Basically, anything that is not a request, or an escape sequence, it considered plain text. There are some 130-odd built-in requests which are expainded by macros (read about them in [Macros](ROFF-MACROS.md)].

GROFF, being the only working ROFF engine today, has a complex hyphenation algorithm. But that's that, hyphenation is the only modification ROFF engine does to your text. 

There's one small thing about the ROFF syntax, which I was not sure to put here, or in the macros document. Basically, say, you have tihs:

```roff
.MY_MACRO
Line of text

.MY_OTHER_MACRO
Another line of text
```

Here, `MY_OTHER_MACRO` terminate the 'effect' of `MY_MACRO`. So any requests made, to, for example, change the font, are reverted back.
